Citation Date,Standard Number / Description,Category,Corrected at Inspection,Correction Deadline Date,Date Correction Evaluated,Sections Violated,Standard Risk Level,Technical Assistance Given,Deficiency Narrative,Correction Narrative
03/01/2025,748.685(a)(4) - Individual Standards Evaluated,Individual Standards Evaluated,No,04/29/2025,05/12/2025,Individual Standards Evaluated,High,Yes,"Evidence obtained confirms a child in care, who is on 1:1 level of supervision eloped from the operation approximately 1 hour prior to staff member's being aware of the elopement. Staff members account of the supervision of the child do not corroborate. ","The operation provided the following compliance response:

1.	Staff will be re-trained on the APC 24hr supervision policy and each youths individual “runaway prevention plan” as well as the Trauma Informed Unauthorized Absence / prevention and protocols.
2.	When necessary, the residents will be placed on a safety plan signed by them, the therapist, Professional Level Service Provider, Licensed Child Care Administrator, and initial by all staff and their service plan will be updated, as well as notifying all parties in a timely manner.
3.	Staff must/will use prudent judgement when stationed in an area that prohibits direct line of sight; thus, compromising safety by asking a fellow staff member to tag out with them, informing them of the situation.
4.	Staff must/will use the documentation mentioned above/attached.

Moving Forward

During orientation to the facility, as well as annually, staff will be taught strategies and techniques they can use to provide the best care, welfare, safety, and security for all.

Staff will document all incidents (physical and/or verbal), as well as teach residents to report to an adult (be a direct care staff, Case-manager, LCCA, etc.), while maintaining a safe and secure environment.

Failing to do so may result in staff being removed from work schedules pending results from investigation and/or allowed to work in another area under a safety plan.

5/12/2025- Face to Face interviews were conducted with 2 residents at George Jr. High and Lamar Alternative School. A 3rd interview was attempted at Lamar Jr. High , however the resident refused to speak with me. Residents interviewed confirmed they enjoy their placement, there are no concerns regarding staff supervision. It was also stated they are never left alone, there are 3 staff on each shift and 1 of the 3 staff is for 1:1 supervision required for another resident at all times."
03/01/2025,748.151(3) - Individual Standards Evaluated,Individual Standards Evaluated,No,04/29/2025,04/30/2025,Individual Standards Evaluated,Medium,Yes,Documentation provided from the operation does not corroborate with the evidence provided by law enforcement. Observation log indicates a child in care was asleep while on runaway status as evidence confirms this information is inaccurate.,"Operation provided the following compliance response:

A Positive Change (APC) sets policies and procedures for residents/staff to prevent injury, increase accountability, and avoid unnecessary crisis.

Documentation is also a part of policies and procedures as a method of ensuring that APC monitors and records all incidents of residents, staff, and that we are using best practices.  

Upon arrival, the respectively assigned employee / employees note the facility clock time and obtain a “Daily/Overnight Checklist” as to document activities and behaviors of the resident that requires close supervision and/or 1:1 service. The respective staff and shift supervisor (if applicable) will review, approve, sign and submit the observation checklist to administration for final review and approval.

Moving forward, during orientation to the facility, as well as annually, staff will be taught strategies and techniques they can use to provide the best care, welfare, safety, and security for all.

Staff will document all incidents (physical and/or verbal), as well as teach residents to report to an adult (be a direct care staff, Case-manager, LCCA, etc.), while maintaining a safe and secure environment.

Failing to do so may result in staff being removed from work schedules pending results from investigation and/or allowed to work in another area under a safety plan.
"
02/26/2025,748.2151(c)(6) - Medication,Medication,No,03/07/2025,03/06/2025,L:Medication,Medium,Yes,Nine of nine medication logs evaluated only contained initials of the staff who administered the medication.  The operation didn't have documentation of the name and signature of the staff members who administers medication.,"On March 6, 2025, the operation provided the following response: To ensure optimal quality, efficiency, and adherence to standards as it relates to 748.2151(c)(6), A Positive Change RTC will implement the following measure. As part of the initial facility orientation process, new and prospective staff members who will be administering medication shall be trained on and required to initial and sign the MAR signature page. "
