Citation Date,Standard Number / Description,Category,Corrected at Inspection,Correction Deadline Date,Date Correction Evaluated,Sections Violated,Standard Risk Level,Technical Assistance Given,Deficiency Narrative,Correction Narrative
10/19/2023,748.705(b)(1) - Individual Standards Evaluated,Individual Standards Evaluated,Yes,10/24/2023,,Individual Standards Evaluated,Medium,No,A staff member allowed a 9 year old girl to shave her legs,
01/12/2022,748.683(2) - Individual Standards Evaluated,Individual Standards Evaluated,No,02/25/2022,02/25/2022,Individual Standards Evaluated,Medium,Yes,"During the course of an investigation, a supervisor stated they did not know if the child in care he was responsible for had any sexual abuse history.","Email received by Administrator:

Resolution of the Issue:
On 2/21/2022, the Director of Compliance and House Manager, met with Valley Haven Supervisors to discuss the deficiency received and the importance of continued awareness of the level of care for each child residing at Valley Haven. Mr. Reyes also reminded the Supervisors that when they sign the required forms at the time of placement it is crucial to ensure that the caregivers understand and are aware of each child’s history. The supervisors informed Mr. Reyes that they understood.
Preventative Measures Taken to Minimize Future Reoccurring Citations/Deficiency:
Upon every placement at Valley Haven, DFPS is required to provide Valley Haven with a completed Placement Summary Form and its Attachment A- Child Sexual History Report. The report provides any history of sexual victimization or sexual aggression for each child placed at Valley Haven. When a history of sexual aggression, behaviors, or victimization is identified after placement, DFPS provides an updated Attachment A to Valley Haven to ensure that Administration addresses the child’s safety, any therapeutic needs, and other children’s safety.
At time of placement and when the Attachment A is updated, the child’s placement administrator, receiving intake staff (as applicable), and the child’s case manager are required to sign the Placement Summary Form and its Attachment A (or an updated one) and return it to the child’s DFPS caseworker. If any of these required signatories are not present at the time of placement, the child’s placement administrator, or their designee in their absence, ensures all required signatories sign and return these documents to the child’s DFPS caseworker within three business days.
At the time of placement, and when the Attachment A is updated, each child’s placement administrator or designee is required to inform all supervisors/caregivers if a child has a history of sexual aggression, behaviors, or victimization as provided for by DFPS in Attachment A. As proof of this notification, the
placement administrator or designee obtains each supervisors/caregivers signature on the certification form attached to the Placement Summary Form, Attachment A. By signing the certification statement, the signatories acknowledge that they have read the DFPS Placement Summary Form, Child Sexual History
Report (Attachment A), and are aware of the child/youth’s history of sexual victimization or sexual aggression. The signatories also agree they have or will do the following:
• Discussed its implications with their employer.
• Understands the importance of applying strategies to the direct care of the child/youth to ensure the safety, health, and well-being of children/youth in care.
• Understands the confidential nature of this information.
• Agrees not to disclose such information except for a necessary purpose authorized under the
DFPS Contract or to protect the safety, health, and well-being of children/youth.
The placement administrator maintains copies of the certification form for each child at Valley Haven and provides such to Valley Havens Residential Contract Manager and DFPS quarterly and upon request."
10/30/2021,748.2855(a) - Individual Standards Evaluated,Individual Standards Evaluated,No,02/11/2022,12/21/2021,Individual Standards Evaluated,Medium,No,"During the course of the investigation, interviews indicated that restraints were conducted and no documentation was noted in the children’s files.","Follow up inspection was completed on 12/21, random children were interviewed regarding discipline. 

The LCCA has met with all supervisors and caregivers at Valley Haven regarding the policies in place that require all incidents to be documented no later than 24 hours in the 
children’s file.
To prevent a reoccurrence of this 
deficiency, Valley Haven LCCA went over 
the documentation requirements for any 
incidents that occur at Valley Haven. Valley 
Haven caregivers & supervisors are already 
required to document any incident with a 
child, even minor incidents that include 
verbal arguments/ disagreements that a 
child may have. The staff was reminded that 
there has been no change and the 
documentation is always required.


"
10/30/2021,748.2463(3) - Individual Standards Evaluated,Individual Standards Evaluated,No,02/11/2022,12/21/2021,Individual Standards Evaluated,Medium High,Yes,"During the course of the investigation, interviews indicated that staff were restraining children in care.","Follow up inspection was completed on 12/21, random children were interviewed regarding discipline.


The LCCA met with the 
supervisors and caregivers at
Valley Haven regarding the 
EBI policies at Valley Haven 
and reminded them that EBI is never allowed to be used on a child as a means to get a child 
to comply. 
To prevent any future reoccurrences of this 
deficiency, Valley Haven will continue to 
train all Direct Care Staff in EBI and follow
the training schedule that is already in place 
for each employee that provides Direct 
Care. EBI training is completed every 3 
months as a refresher for the employees to 
provide methods of appropriate discipline, 
multiple tools for redirection and positive 
reinforcement for misbehavior. Valley 
Haven only allows short personal restraints 
in the event a child is in immediate danger
to him or her self or another child in care.
All staff is trained in TBRI and utilizes de-escalation techniques to prevent any 
restraints and does very well at utilizing the 
tools provided in their trainings."
09/21/2021,748.1539(b) - Child Care,Child Care,No,04/30/2022,09/27/2021,J:Child Care,Medium Low,No,A child in care did not have any documentation of immunizations. ,"Email received from administration

Corrections:
The LCCA has submitted a variance request to RCCL asking for an extension that will allow Valley Haven’s Case Management team more time to work with the child’s Pediatrician, School and CPS Worker on receiving the current Immunization Record.
As of right now, the Immunization Record provided by the child’s Pediatrician that is on file states “no record” and there is documented weekly correspondence between the Pediatricians office and Valley Haven.
The correspondence and request for records will continue weekly or until the minimum standard is met.
If the immunization record is not found by the extension deadline (10/28/21), Valley Haven will request an immunization schedule or an exemption from the child’s Pediatrician to become compliant with the Minimum Standards.
Preventions of Reoccurring Deficiency:
To prevent a reoccurrence of this deficiency, Valley Haven will submit a variance request for an extension that will provide more time to be able to receive the most current immunization records for any children that do not have an updated Immunization Record on file.
In the event Valley Haven comes across another issue of no records being found for a child and the pediatrician does not recommend an immunization schedule (because he feels there is an error in the system), Valley Haven will have an exemption on file from the doctors office that complies with the Minimum Standards.
"
06/18/2021,748.399(a) - Reports and Record Keeping,Reports and Record Keeping,No,06/25/2021,07/15/2021,D:Reports and Record Keeping,Medium,Yes,Operation active records were not available for review at the time of inspection.,The standard was found to be compliant 
05/12/2021,748.685(a)(4) - Individual Standards Evaluated,Individual Standards Evaluated,No,10/30/2021,03/15/2022,Individual Standards Evaluated,High,Yes,A minor was in the bathroom for a long period of time during which the minor self - harmed and Staff did not provide proper intervention.,"Follow up completed on 3/15/22
The administrator submitted an request for AR via email on 07/23/2021 @ 1:30 PM.
Email received from administrator:
Resolution of the Issue:
On 3/08/2022, Fernando Reyes, Director of Compliance and House Manager, met with Valley Haven Supervisors to discuss the deficiency received and the importance of ensuring all caregivers provide the level of supervision necessary to ensure each child’s safety and well being. The supervisors informed Mr. Reyes that they understood.
Preventative Measures Taken to Minimize Future Reoccurring Citations/Deficiency:
Fernando Reyes discussed appropriate timeframes for children taking showers and reminded the Supervisors and Caregivers that even though teenagers take longer times in the showers, they must frequently check on them to ensure they are safe and at the same time respect their privacy.
Date and Timeframes for Compliance:
Valley Haven began implementing the preventative measures discussed above on 07/08/2021 and on 03/08/2022. Compliance will continue to be ongoing and will occur for every child placed at Valley Haven."
05/12/2021,748.303(a)(2)(A) - Individual Standards Evaluated,Individual Standards Evaluated,No,10/30/2021,03/15/2022,Individual Standards Evaluated,Medium High,Yes,A child in care involved in an Incident where professional medical attention was given was not reported to Licensing.,"Follow-up completed 3/15/22
The administrator submitted an request for AR via email on 07/23/2021 @ 1:30 PM.
Email received from administrator:
Preventative Measures Taken to Minimize Future Reoccurring Citations/Deficiency:
To prevent future reoccurring citations/deficiencies, Kristen Millon will call in a report to licensing no later than 24 hours after the injury/illness if a child receives treatment by a medical professional at the hospital due to a psychiatric evaluation.
Date and Timeframes for Compliance:
Valley Haven began implementing the preventative measures discussed above on 03/08/2022. Compliance will continue to be ongoing and will occur for every child placed at Valley Haven."
02/05/2021,748.685(a)(4) - Individual Standards Evaluated,Individual Standards Evaluated,No,09/30/2021,09/22/2021,Individual Standards Evaluated,High,Yes,The operation failed to ensure the safety of a child by allowing a resident to have phone communication with an individual that aided in the process of helping the child run away from the operation. ,"Follow up Inspection was completed on 9/21/21.  No concerns were found. Compliance was met.

Extension granted related to administrative review. 

The Administrator submitted a corrective action plan via email on 08/23/2021.  In response to the citation, The LCCA will review safety plan development and appropriate supervision measures that must be taken when a child in care has a safety plan in place with the Valley Haven House Manager. If a safety plan becomes effective for a child in care at Valley Haven, the LCCA, or House Manager will review the safety plan with Valley Haven Caregivers, Supervisors and Case Management.
The LCCA or House Manager must ensure any questions or concerns regarding the safety plan implementation and the appropriate supervision required by the safety plan in place have been answered and understood.
An acknowledgement of Safety Plan Implementation Form has been created and will be completed by Valley Haven Caregivers, Supervisors and Case Management Team every time a child in care has a safety plan.  This practice will be discussed and should be implemented by 09/03/2021."
